For alongside our famous individualism, there's another ingredient in the American saga. Our trials and triumphs became at once unique and universal, black and more than black; in chronicling our journey, the stories and songs gave us a means to reclaim memories that we didn't need to feel shame about...memories that all people might study and cherish - and with which we could start to rebuild." But that is not yet the case.

We worship an awesome God in the Blue States, and we don't like smart federal agents poking around in our libraries in the Red States. Contrary to the claims of some of my critics, black and white, I have never been so naive as to believe that we can get beyond our racial divisions in a single election cycle, or with a single candidacy - particularly a candidacy as imperfect as my own. And I consider it part of my responsibility as President of the United States to fight against negative stereotypes of Islam wherever they appear.

That is the true genius of America - a faith in simple dreams,, an insistence on small miracles. Imagine Lincoln's Second Inaugural without its reference to "the judgments of the Lord." Or King's "I Have a Dream" speech without its reference to "all of God's children." Or President Kennedy's Inaugural without the words, "here on Earth, God's work must truly be our own." At each of these junctures, by summoning a higher truth and embracing a universal faith, our leaders inspired ordinary people to achieve extraordinary things. Did I ever hear him make remarks that could be considered controversial while I sat in church? Yes. She's the one who taught me about hard work.

It's the hope of slaves sitting around a fire singing freedom songs. The UCC is still listening. And God is still speaking. But let us be clear: al Qaeda killed nearly 3,000 people on that day.

But then I asked myself: Are we serving Shamus as well as he is serving us? They came of age in the late fifties and early sixties, a time when segregation was still the law of the land and opportunity was systematically constricted. We can pounce on some gaffe by a Hillary supporter as evidence that she's playing the race card, or we can speculate on whether white men will all flock to John McCain in the general election regardless of his policies. It's a promise that says the market should reward drive and innovation and generate growth, but that businesses should live up to their responsibilities to create American jobs, look out for American workers, and play by the rules of the road. That experience guides my conviction that partnership between America and Islam must be based on what Islam is, not what it isn't.

Thank you, God Bless you, and God Bless the United States of America.
